I want to leave you with something that I hope you'll find
valuable as you start out in your marketing analytics endeavors.
Jerry Rackley is a marketing author and executive and he created 10 values that I find
incredibly useful in guiding
any new initiative or on your journey as a marketing analyst.
Let me paraphrase them for you.
Every marketing initiative will begin with your success metrics. What is the objective?
What are you measuring,
and how do we qualify if we've been successful?
Don't use or report metrics that are based on inaccurate or incomplete data.
Don't use vanity metrics just to look
busy or because someone likes to see marketing numbers.
Now everyone will have an opinion,
but metrics are the judge of the results or the success.
When the analytics output conflicts with your beliefs,
always choose the analytics.
When the analytics reveal good results, take credit.
When the analytics reveal poor results, take responsibility.
Now don't use the output of the analytics process punitively.
Only use it to improve.
Analytics don't make the decisions.
They inform the decisions that we ultimately make.
Now, every marketing initiative will end by reviewing the data.
I encourage you to follow these principles as you work on your own initiatives.